For this second to last exercise of the
chapter, we're going
to write a function to compute the
factorial of a number.
We did this earlier in the course, where
we were studying for loops.
But it's most often computed using a
function, so
let's see how to write that function in
Python.
So we're gonna call this program
chap11ex2.py.
Lets get started right off with the
function, which we're
gonna call fact, to save a little bit of
typing.
And so the parameter will be a number.
We start off by creating a variable
product and assigning it the value 1.
It's going to store our running product.
Then we write a for loop ranges from one.
Through the number entered plus one for
each number in
the range from one to the number that we
entered.
We simply multiply that number by the
product and store it back in the product.
And that will give us the factorial, so
that
our last step is to return that valued
product.
And there's our function.
So in our program to test the function,
we'll prompt the user to enter a value.
We'll get that value using input converted
to int.
And then we'll display the result.
We'll say,
just like so.
So let's exit and save.
And we'll run the program.
Oop, I see what I did.
Try it again.
There we go.
So enter a number, so let's do 5
factorial, 5 factorial is 120.
Let's run it again.
10 factorial, and then just for fun, see
how
well Python handles large numbers, let's
try 100 factorial.
Whoa, so you see how fast factorial
expands.
But you also see how easily Python handles
large numbers.
So that's always an advantage when you're
working with large numbers.
Lets look at the program one more time
just as a review.
And so we see that to compute the
factorial, we simply range from one
through the
number we're trying to compute the
factorial of,
and keep a running product with that
range.
Now, one of the reasons I showed how to
compute factorial again is because
this is going to become the basis for the
first lesson in the next chapter.
The next chapter is a chapter on advanced
functions in Python, and one of
the first examples of advanced functions
we're
going to look at, is the recursive
function.
And recursive functions are functions that
call
themselves in the body of the function.
And factorial is the classic example of a
recursive function.
We're going to take a look at that in the
first lesson of the next chapter.